Welcome to Using an Image as a Texture!
In this video we're going to show you how to add a texture
to your material. We're going to reinforce the defuse and specular
settings, we're going to model the board surround, and then, finally
apply a texture to that board surround, making it look much
better! So let's hop straight on over into Blender!
So here we are in Blender and with our default cube!
So let's zoom into our cube a little high, at the Timeline,
and I'm getting a feeling I should just set this as my standard layout,
by now. And let's apply a Material,
of course, there's going to be one already applied. I'm going to call
it Brickwork, and the next
section along on the Properties Pane,
this little checkered square here, that's the texture
properties. So you can click on that there and we've
got a list down here. Now, I'm going to name this Bricks,
and then, further down
just have a look here.
Type, well it needs to be an image, in this case. There's loads of other
options, which are procedurally generated textures, but we're going to
use, in this case, an Image or Movie. So if we select that
and go into your assets pack, and you will
find a texture. I
can't remember what it's called. I think it's called Bricks? Yes, it's called Bricks.JPG!
So open that up and it will give us an example of the
texture itself. Well is it applied to here? Well we don't know at the
moment, while the Viewport Shading is set to Solid. So change it
now to Rendered, and we'll see how it goes!
OK, so it has applied it but it does look a bit odd there,
as you can see it looks a bit funny down the sides there.
So first of all, so we can see our entire object, I'm
going to change our lamp to a
Hemi just so the whole things' highlighted, and
I'm just going to go around our cube. OK, so
this is a good example here, there's
not a chance in the world that a wall is going to look that shiny,
that glossy, unless someone's going around varnishing walls!
So in our Materials properties, for the Cube, if we go
down and turn the Specular either all the way down or off...
Yep, I'm happy with that now, and I'm just going to
turn the Diffuse up, in this case! OK, so let's hop back
over into the Texture, scroll
down a little. So what we're looking for here is the Mapping.
So at the moment, the coordinates for this
texture are being generated by
Blender for us, which is great, and their projection is flat, which is
why we've got these lovely stripes down the side of our
block work. We may want that but, in this case, I certainly
do not. So if we change the Projection of that from Flat to
Cube, you'll see that ah there we go!
We've now got our texture applied to all of the
sides! As your model gets more and more complicated,
and we will get to UV Mapping and Unwrapping, later
on, but you will need to do that. But since our models
are quite simple, at the moment, with basic textures, this brickwork
here, for instance, is working really well. The
other one you can choose here is Object, so we're mapping it to the
Object itself, and that does look a bit bizarre, at the moment. And why is
that? Well that looks very bizarre, it's kind of tracking our view, at the moment,
because we've not selected an object for it to be mapped to.
And if we select the Cube as the mapping, there we go
it's mapped in a very similar manner, as it was before. There are
quite a few other options in the Coordinates, we
won't be using any of these, at the moment. OK,
so finally, the Size and Offset. Well Offset,
as you could probably guess, shifts the texture from left to
right, up and down, etc. And the Size, well this
acts in the reverse manner, as I was expecting it to.
So if I half the values of X and Y, the texture
actually gets larger, as we can see there, and if I
double the value of X and Y, the texture gets
half the size. So it's very easy to get confused which
way around those things are, I certainly did. I'm going to set them back to 1, for the moment.
And you may
need to alter this depending on the scale of the model that you're working
on. In this case, that looks absolutely fine,
and I'm happy with that!
So I've just saved that Brick Cube,
for the moment, just in case I need it again in future, and
I'm going to go and open up my ChessScene! So
let's go and model the surround to the board itself!
So the first thing I'm going to do is Add a Plane
object. OK, that's added it in a funny
location! I've got a couple of options here, I can go to the Transform
up here and relocate it at 0, 0, 0. I could go
over here to the Add Plane, in the Operator Panel,
and change that to 0, 0, 0. In this case, I'm going to choose to just
undo the creation of that and use Shift and
C, to both center the view and put the 3D Cursor
bang in the middle of our scene. Then, I can create our
Mesh, Plane. I think this is a 24
Radius? I'm not sure, let's just give it a quick go to 24.
Excellent! Alright, we're going to use a little bit of a hack
here to get this done. We're going to extrude...
Ooh, we're going to go into Edit Mode first, before we extrude,
and we're going to grab the edge loop, running around the outside
of this plane and we're going to extrude
by absolutely nothing. Odd, I
may say, but this
basically has duplicated that edge, so now we can scale it
outwards. I must say, at this point, if you do have the
Automatically Merge Vertices turned on, on the 3D Editor
Header, that will not work with the process we've just done, because
it'll just merge the 4 vertices at the corners back
into 4, rather than having the 8. So if that is on, you'll turn it off,
and then, we can scale that outwards. And I'm going to
do this by eye. One of those two is absolutely fine,
1.2, 1.3. Brilliant! So I'm going to go
into Face Select and remove this center face completely,
and remember, when you're deleting, in this case, we're
deleting faces. And this middle one now, I can
extrude in the Z axis by -1.
OK, that doesn't appear to have behaved itself.
that's OK, because the Operator Panel still has
Transform in it that we've just done, and apparently I moved it in the X axis.
I'm going to set that to 0 and that to -1, and that should...
Excellent, we don't have the hashing on the top of the board, and we should find it's
got some depth now. Brilliant! OK, so finally,
here I'm going to grab the edge loop running around our board,
I'm going to extrude in the Z axis, yep,
by -2. Excellent, so
it's got some thickness! I'm probably going to undo that
and extrude in the Z axis by -3,
to give it a bit more depth. Then finally, fill in that
face. Excellent! So because we've been going in the negative
direction, quite a bit, I can see straight away that a lot of the
faces we've generated have got the normals around the wrong way. So whilst we're still
in Edit Mode, let's select our entire model, and just flip the
normals around the right way, with Control and N. And whilst we're
here, let's just make sure we've not got any duplicate vertices,
by Removing Doubles. We haven't, in this case,
it's removed 0. Excellent work! So we've got our board
ready to do there, and what we can do finally, I'm
just going to bevel this edge. So I'm going to select the edge loop going around,
hold down Control and B, and add in
a bevel with 3 or so
edges, and let's just have a look at the Operator Panel and see what the other
options we have are. I'm going to set that to a whole number.
That's Segments, yep that's fine! Vertex Only, that's
interesting but not what I want. Let's just work
our way around here, have a look at the profile. Yes, that's a nice
profile. Bear in mind, you can go a bit whacky on your, pop feet on it,
or whatever you want in that way. Clamp Overlap.
OK, that's a bit better
there, that centralizes it a little.
Ah I see, so that prevents it coming too close to the edge. Brilliant, that's
exactly what I want in this case! Ooh, that's interesting
going like that, rather than the other way. I think I'm going to keep that!
Excellent! Alright, so let's just apply that,
sorted, and now, I think it's
time for a challenge!
OK guys, it's challenge time! I'd like you to add a
wooden texture! So using the Brazilian_Rosewood
texture, in your asset pack, apply that to the board surround.
Pause the video now and give that a go!
OK guys, welcome back!
Let's go and apply the Brazilian_Rosewood texture to our board surround.
OK, so we're back in Blender
now! Let's go ahead and add a texture to our
board surround. So first of all, I'm going to go to where it's
it says plane and change the name of this to board surround.
In fact, I'm going to put the word Chess in front of it,
and that's purely so it lines up with the one that's
just Chess Board. So the Chess Board Surround I'm going to add
a Material to it, and I'm going to call it
Chess Board Surround. That'd be a good name for it, so I'm just going to
copy and paste in that name.
Then, I'm going to go straight over to the Textures,
create a new texture, scroll
down a little more. I'm going to make this window bigger now.
Open up Section Assets,
Brazilian_Rosewood. That looks good, I'm going to turn
on Rendered, straight away, and see what it looks like.
Why aren't we seeing anyting? We've got the lighting hidden, so I'm going to
hold down Control and turn both the lights on, at once.
Excellent! So we've got a couple of options here. That
looks like a proper machined bit, because you would
probably, I think the term is metered, to get that 45
degree angle in there with the wood. Let's see
if there's any other options that would suit a bit of experimentation, as
always, never goes amiss. So the Mapping, at the moment, is mapped to UV
Coordinates, and we can see there, it's following the face that
has been generated from there. So if we go to Generated itself...
I'm not too sure on that, the texture it looks very
big, it makes the board
look very small compared to the textures there. So if we went in here and did
X, Y, and I will do Z, as well.
Yeah, that looks OK, as well. That's got
a grain in it. It does look a bit odd though, it does look uniform,
but I do prefer the UV option
that was coming up before. Let's just try Object and set it
to the Chess Board Surround. Wow, that's
certainly too small there! So let's change that
to 0.50, I think. No, it's going to
have to be more than that. So I'm going to leave that, as is
previous selection at UV, because that looks really
nice. Now, the specularity of this, is that about right?
Well, we've got to make a decision here. I don't think wood
would be that polished, so I do want some
specularity but I don't want that much, so I'm just going to turn that down,
until I'm happy with it. I'm going to half it, first of all,
and probably a little lower than that. Yes,
I'm happy with it having some glare on it, some
reflection of the lights in the environment
but not so much that it's too glaring. Alright
brilliant! How did you guys get on? Please share your results in the
discussions, and I will see you in the next lecture!